# Tiktok Data Collection

## Article 1
The Washington Post's [Is it time to delete TikTok? A guide to the rumors and real privacy risks](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/07/13/tiktok-privacy/), Patrick Jackson of the privacy company Disconnect discussed the app's use of data. To start, TikoTok collects what videos you watch and how long you watch them for. This is the data of primary importance. With permission, the app will have access to your phone's contacts, your location, and any other social media connections you may have. It can also collect age information and your phone number. A company called Mysk found that TikTok was accessing iPhones' clipboards every few seconds. Personally, I can't see how clipboard information could be used in any meaningful way. It seems like that would be very noisy data.

Upon immediate opening up of the app, Jackson found that half a megabyte of data was sent to TIkTok's servers in the first nine seconds. This information included screen resolution and the phone's Apple advertising identifier. The app was banned by the U.S. Army out of fear of privacy concerns. The appmakers claim that the data is stored in the U.S. and Singapore. Author of the article Geoffrey Fowler remarks that TikTok takes a similar amount of data as Facebook, and that it is easy to conflate concerns over privacy with a xenophobic view of this Chinese owned app.

## Article 2
Vice's [TikTOk is Watching You - Even If You Don't Have An Account](https://www.vice.com/en/article/jgqbmk/tiktok-data-collection) sheds further light on TikTok's data collection. Average users spend 46 minutes on the app daily. TikTok can collect the IP address, timezone, and mobile carrier. Users can request access to the data collected. All of this data was collected without Author Riccardo Coluccini even signing up for the app. Tracking both IP address and timezone seems a bit redundant. Can't you identify someone's location with their IP address?

Coluccini notes that big tech companies track activity to find and eliminate fraudulent accounts, and can be used by law enforcement. In 2020, the FBI use Tiktok data to monitor black lives matter protestors. A 12-year-old child in the UK sued ByteDance over the right to use their data to inform the TikTok algorithm. A lot of the data collected does not seem to be useful information to me. How can ByteDance use your mobile carrier to help sell ad space?